# Odd-Even Sort Mutation Testing

## SWE30009 - Semester 2, 2024

This project performs mutation testing on an **Odd-Even Sort** algorithm, comparing the results of each mutant's behavior to the original program. The mutants are tested with several test cases, and their outputs are evaluated based on predefined **Metamorphic Relations (MRs)** to assess if they survive or are killed.
The original source code is from https://github.com/TheAlgorithms/Python/blob/master/sorts/odd_even_sort.py

# Student Information

- Name: Vu Ha Phuong
- Student ID: 104177306

## Table of Contents

- [List of Test Cases](#list-of-test-cases)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [How to Run Test Script](#how-to-run-test-script)
- [Expected Output](#expected-output)

## List of Test Cases

- All the list of test cases being used is in folder TEST.
- Test case for MR1 is in file test_cases_mr1.py
- Test case for MR2 is in file test_cases_mr2.py

## Project Structure

- **MUTANTS/**: Directory containing 30 mutants named `m1.py` to `m30.py`.
- **SUT/**: Contains the original implementation of the `odd_even_sort` function.
- **TEST/**: Contains the test script for two MRs and test for mutants.
  1. /test_cases_mr1.py: Contain generated test cases for MR1
  2. /test_cases_mr2.py: Contain generated test cases for MR2
  3. /test_mr1.py: Script for generating expected outputs based on Metamorphic Relation 1.
  4. /test_mr2.py: Script for generating expected outputs based on Metamorphic Relation 2.
  5. /test_mutant_for_mr1.py: Script for test whether the output of MR1 is equal to output of mutants, and generate out the comparision result.
  6. test_mutant_for_mr2.py: Script for test whether the output of MR2 is equal to output of mutants, and generate out the comparision result.

## How to Run Test Script

- Direct to the correct file: cd TEST/<test_file_name>
- Run command: py <file_name>

## Expected Output

- If you run the test for MRs file, the output will display two types of information:
  1. Success messages with the sorted output for each follow-up list after performing the Metamorphic Relation (MR) test
  2. The expected outputs generated by the get_mr_outputs() function for each test case.
- If you run the test script for mutants, the output will be a table display a list of information include: Mutant ID, Source List, Mutants Output, Expected Output, Result (to tell if mutant is killed or not)
